Name: Raisa Kamal  
ID:16-31939-1



1)What is Meltdown?

Meltdown is clalled security vulnerability.It is a hardware vulnerability which affected Intel x86,microprocessors,IBM power processors and some ARM-based microprocessors.
It allows a rough process to read all the memory even when it is not authorized to do.It affects a wide range of systems.Researchers have indicated that the Meltdown vulnerability is exclusive 
to intel processors.It breaks the most fundamental isolated between user applications and the operating system.

2)What is Spectre?

Spectre is a vulnerability that affects modern microprocessors that perform branch prediction.It also tricks a program into accessing arbitrary locations in the program's memory space. An 
attracker may read the content of accessed memory and thus potentially obtain Meltdown but it is also harder to mitigate.By using spectre it is possible to prevent specific known explotis 
through software patches.


3)How they work?

We have heard about security isseus called Meltdown and Spectre that allow cyber criminals to steal sensitive information from the cloud.Patches have been created to protect many affected systems 
and products and efforts are underway to update others.But the bad news is these fixes might slow down computer performance.These threads are came from speculative execution.It lets devices do 
some work ahead of time to speed up routine tasks.But it also creates a security vulnerability nobody expected.For example,
Think the computer as a resturant and the customer order the same food everyday.Eventually the cook sees the pattern and starts making the order ahead of time.But if the customer decided to order 
something different oneday now the cook has to throw away the prepared breakfast and start over .Spectre works like this.Whenever computers perform calculation that aren't acctually needed,the
results are thrown away.This data ends up in an unsecred part of the computers cache memory,where unauthorised users can access it through a side channel.Back in 1960s when speculative execution 
was invented computers were very self-contained.Since there was no way to see the data being thrown away.Nobody thought it was a risk and it was never secured.Today computers and mobile devices 
share system resources with many appications and environments.Normally sharing is good but when unprotected data from spectre ends up in shared memory it can became a serious problem
CyberCriminals use a side channel to sneak in and hijack the data.Even worse they can trick computers  into loading any data like passwords and account information into the shared memory so they
can steal it.


4)How to protect your computer from meltdown and spectre?

When reserachers indentified them,they brought them to the attention of major technology comapnies.Hundreds of engineers came together to create patches that block Meltdown and Spectre
attracks.It's stay up to  date with the latest realases of operating systems.In the future,system designs willchange to eliminate these kinds of vulnerabilities for good.The reality is,computer will always have some
security issuses thats why it's so important to havemany engineers and developers looking for them as possible and for companies to come together and solve problems that affect us all.



5)What architecture they used?

They used Intel x86 microprocessors,IBM POWER processors  and some  ARM-based microprocessors.
 


